---
layout: page
title: Life List    
permalink: /Life List/
---
# School Cafeteria Discards Assessment Project (SCrAP)

I began my internship at EREF (Environmental Research and Education Foundation) in April of this year. I've loved the experience so far and am excited to be working on a huge project for the foundation, SCrAP.

Roughly 40% of food produced in the United States is thrown away.  At EREF, our mission is to fund and direct scientific research and educational initiatives for waste management practices to benefit the solid waste industry and the communities it serves.
Essentially, we want to provide data-driven analysis in order to better inform policy makers and businesses about solid waste generation, management, and more.  

As part of our goal to better understand food waste in the United States, we are working to better understand many things about food waste:

* How much food waste is generated (and solid waste in general)
  * By Volume and Mass

* How much solid waste is generated by each sector of the economy
  * Institutional Sector
    * Schools
    * Hospitals
    * Prisons
    * Etc.
  * Commercial Sector
    * Restaurants
    * Shopping Malls
    * Big-Box Stores
    * Etc. 
  * Hospitality Sector
    * Casinos
    * Hotels, Motels, Inns
    * Etc. 

As you can see, this study is huge.  It involves mass amounts of data collection, aggregation, and analysis.  It also involves a lot of inter-department communication across all of EREF. 

Specifically, we are zeroing in on Schools, which fall under the Institutional Sector.  This is where SCrAP comes into play.

The idea behind SCrAP is to recruit thousands of schools across the United States to participate in a Questionnaire about their waste generation and management practices.
We also are hoping to entice these schools to actually collect data on the amount and type of waste generated during school lunches.  This would allow EREF to analyze these surveys and data to answer important questions such as: 

* What types of foods are children throwing away?
* How much of the food waste generated was completely unopened?
* What types of foods are discarded more?
* And more! 

These questions are very important when you consider the number of schools and the fiscal cost of providing lunches. 

More updates to come!

